General Terms and Conditions for Electricity Supply
of Dortmunder Energie- und Wasserversorgung GmbH (DEW21) for Residential Customers
Date: February 2023
The following General Terms and Conditions of Supply (GTC) apply only to the supply of electricity to residential customers outside of the standard and substitute supply, who have concluded a supply agreement with DEW21. Residential customers are end consumers who predominantly purchase energy for their own consumption in the household or for their own consumption for professional, agricultural, or commercial purposes, up to an annual consumption of 10,000 kilowatt-hours. In addition and with priority, additional Specific Terms and Conditions apply (e.g., for online tariffs, heat pumps, heating electricity) if they are part of the supply agreement.
1. Contract conclusion and commencement of delivery.
1.1 The offers made by DEW21 in brochures, advertisements, forms, etc., are non-binding. The prices agreed upon at the time of contract conclusion shall apply.
1.2 DEW21 will promptly and free of charge carry out the change of supplier, while observing the contractually agreed deadlines. After the change, the previous supplier is obliged to inform the new supplier of the consumption figures for the comparable period of the previous year. If the previous supplier cannot determine the consumption figures for reasons beyond its control, the estimated consumption figures must be provided.
1.3 DEW21 endeavors to fulfill the customer’s desired delivery start date. The contract is concluded by DEW21 confirming it in writing, stating the expected delivery start date. In the event of a change of supplier, the actual delivery start date depends on all necessary measures for the supply having been taken (termination of the previous supply contract, approval by the previous supplier, etc.). No supply will be made before the expiry of the customer’s cancellation period according to §§ 355 para. 2, 356 para. 2 no. 2 of the German Civil Code (BGB), unless the customer expressly requests DEW21 to do so.
2. Type of delivery
2.1 DEW21 supplies the customer with its entire demand for electrical energy to the designated point of consumption as specified in the contract.
2.2 The point of connection is the property boundary of the grid connection, via which the customer is supplied and identified in terms of energy supply using a market location ID. The measurement location refers to the point where energy is measured, and it includes all the technical equipment required to determine and, if necessary, transmit the measurement data.
2.3 Unless otherwise agreed in the Special Conditions, only customers with electricity requirements for standard load profiles, a single-tariff structure, and low-voltage connections will be supplied under the terms of this contract.
The supply will be:
• Three-phase current with a voltage of approximately 400 or 230 volts
• Alternating current with a voltage of approximately 230 volts.
The frequency is approximately 50 Hertz. The relevant regulation for this is the “Ordinance on General Conditions for Grid Connection and its Use for Electricity Supply in Low Voltage (Low Voltage Connection Ordinance – NAV).”
3. Costs, fees, and flat rates
The amount of the following costs, fees, and flat rates (e.g., reminder fees, disconnection and reconnection costs) at the time the contract is concluded can be found in the cost overview provided to the customer upon conclusion of the contract. The most current amounts can also be found on the DEW21 website (www.dew21.de).
4. Creditworthiness assessment
According to section 22.4 e), DEW21 can request information from SCHUFA HOLDING AG, Kormoranweg 5, 65201 Wiesbaden, or Creditreform Dortmund Scharf GmbH & Co. KG, Phoenixseestr. 4, 44263 Dortmund, for the purpose of creditworthiness assessment. When providing information, SCHUFA can additionally inform its contractual partners of a probability value calculated from its data to assess the credit risk (scoring method).

In the event of non-contractual behavior (e.g., amount of claim in the case of an enforceable claim), DEW21 transmits this information to SCHUFA, which, upon proof of legitimate interest, provides information to its contractual partners.
The SCHUFA’s contractual partners primarily include credit institutions, as well as credit card and leasing companies. In addition, SCHUFA also provides information to commercial, telecommunications, and other companies that provide services and goods on credit. Further information about SCHUFA: www.meineschufa.de.
5. Scope and execution of the delivery.
5.1 The operation of the metering point is provided by the metering point operator and, in accordance with § 9 para. 2 MsbG, is part of this contract, unless the customer enters into a contract with a competing metering point operator. DEW21 will invoice the customer for the fees for the operation of the metering point and the metering services, subject to the conditions outlined in section 9.4.
5.2 DEW21 remains exempt from its performance obligations to the extent and for as long as the operator of the local distribution network (network operator) has, on its own initiative, interrupted the network connection and/or the use of the connection, or the meter operator has interrupted the operation of the metering point. The same applies if DEW21 is prevented from delivering and/or receiving electricity due to force majeure or other circumstances that DEW21 cannot remedy or that would be economically unreasonable for it to remedy. The customer’s claims for damages against DEW21 remain unaffected in the event that DEW21 is at fault for the interruption.
6. Installment payments
6.1 DEW21 may require the customer to make monthly advance payments. The amount of the advance payment shall be calculated proportionally for the period of the advance payment, based on the consumption in the most recently invoiced period. If such a calculation is not possible, the advance payment shall be based on the average consumption of comparable customers. If the customer demonstrates that their consumption differs significantly, this should be taken into account accordingly.
6.2 At the end of each billing period of one year, as defined by DEW21, and at the end of the supply relationship, DEW21 will prepare a bill in which the actual amount of supply is calculated, taking into account the advance payments. If there is a discrepancy between the advance payments and the calculation of the actual supply, the amount that was overcharged or undercharged will be promptly refunded or paid, but in any case, it will be reconciled with the next advance payment. The customer – deviating from sentence 1 – has the right to choose a paid monthly, quarterly, or semi-annual billing, which is based on a separate agreement with DEW21. In the case of monthly billing, the right of DEW21 according to Section 6.1 does not apply.
6.3 If the prices change during the billing period, DEW21 will calculate the adjusted, consumption-independent price components on a daily basis. For the calculation of the adjusted consumption-dependent price components, the determined consumption volume of the customer during the billing period will be divided into the periods before and after the price change, based on a reasonable estimate (§ 315 BGB), taking into account seasonal consumption fluctuations based on comparable empirical data. The subsequent installment payments can be adjusted accordingly.
6.4 If the final billing reveals that excessive advance payments were requested, the excess amount must be reimbursed immediately, and at the latest, it must be offset against the next advance payment request. After the termination of the service agreement, any advance payments made in excess must be reimbursed immediately.
7. Billing, due date, default, and interruption of service due to payment default.
7.1 The electricity consumption is generally recorded and billed every 12 months, unless an interim or final bill is issued earlier. The customer can make their due payments either by SEPA direct debit or by bank transfer.
7.2 In the event of clause 6.2, sentence 3, an interim settlement can only be initiated at the beginning of a calendar month.
7.3 The due dates for the installment payments will be communicated to the customer in the delivery contract or the contract confirmation, as well as in the annual invoice.
7.4 All invoice amounts become due at the time specified by DEW21, but no earlier than 2 weeks after the invoice is received. If the customer is in default with overdue payments and DEW21 incurs costs that are reimbursable as damages due to the default, as defined in Section 288 of the German Civil Code (BGB), by engaging a lawyer or a debt collection agency, the customer must reimburse these costs.
7.5 If the customer fails to make payment, and the amount due is equal to twice the amount of the installment or advance payment applicable to the current calendar month, or at least €100.00, including collection and recovery costs, DEW21 is entitled to suspend delivery and have the connection usage interrupted by the responsible network operator; however, the right to interrupt shall not be exercised as long as the conditions for suspension under § 19(2) of the StromGVV regarding the minimum amount and frequency of default have not been met. In calculating the minimum amount, unacknowledged claims that the customer has demonstrably disputed, or claims that are not yet due due to an agreement between DEW21 and the customer, or claims resulting from a disputed and not yet legally binding price increase by DEW21, shall be disregarded. The customer will be notified of the intended interruption at least four weeks in advance, and the network operator will be informed of the order eight working days in advance by means of a written notification specifying the time of the order, but in any case, the notice period for suspension under § 19 StromGVV shall apply. DEW21 will instruct the network operator to interrupt the connection usage at the time specified in the notification, for which the network operator has a further six working days, in accordance with the provisions of the uniform grid connection agreement for electricity. The interruption will not take place if the consequences of the interruption are disproportionate to the severity of the payment default, or if the customer demonstrates that there is a reasonable prospect that he will fully comply with his obligations. The customer will immediately notify DEW21 of any special circumstances that would absolutely preclude an interruption.
7.6 The costs of the interruption as well as the costs of restoring the supply shall be borne by the customer. According to the cost overview, the costs can be calculated as a lump sum for structurally comparable cases, in accordance with section 3; this lump-sum calculation must be easily understandable. The lump sum must not exceed the costs that can be expected under normal circumstances. Upon the customer's request, the basis for the calculation must be provided. The customer must be allowed to provide evidence of lower costs.
8. Advance payment
8.1 DEW21 is entitled to request an advance payment for the customer’s electricity consumption, provided that the customer is in default with a payment due under the contract and the amount is not insignificant, or if the customer repeatedly defaults on payments within a period of twelve months, or if there are outstanding monetary claims from a previous supply contract with DEW21, or in other justified cases. The advance payment is due at the earliest at the beginning of the delivery and will be determined by DEW21 at its reasonable discretion (§ 315 BGB). If an advance payment is requested, the customer must be informed of the start date, amount, and reasons for the advance payment, as well as the conditions for its cancellation.

The amount of the advance payment is based on the average monthly consumption during the previous billing period and the current contract price, or, if there is no previous billing period, on the average monthly consumption of comparable customers and the current contract price. If the customer credibly demonstrates that their consumption is significantly lower, this must be taken into account appropriately.
8.2 The advance payment will be offset against the next invoice, unless otherwise agreed. If there is a discrepancy between the advance payment and the amount due, the overpaid or underpaid amount will be promptly refunded or charged accordingly. If such an offset is made and the conditions for an advance payment continue to apply, the customer is obliged to promptly pay the offset amount as a renewed advance payment after the offset.
9. Prices and variable price components, price adjustments, taxes, and other official fees and charges.
9.1 The base price consists of an annual base rate and a base usage rate, which is dependent on consumption. The components of the base price are subject to the price adjustment provisions in section 9.13. The base price is calculated on the basis of the costs incurred for supplying all customers under this tariff. Unless otherwise agreed in the special conditions, all fees listed in sections 9.2 to 9.11 for meter operation and the grid fee to be paid to the grid operator, including concession fees as well as taxes, duties, and legally imposed charges, will be charged as variable price components in addition to the base price at the respective applicable rate.

The amount of the variable price components according to sections 9.2 to 9.11 is determined at the time of contract conclusion based on the price list or contract confirmation agreed with the customer, and the respective current amount can also be obtained on the DEW21 website (www.dew21.de). The amount of the price components according to sections 9.2 and 9.6 to 9.10 applicable for the respective following calendar year will be published on the internet by the transmission system operators by October 25th of a calendar year (currently: www.netztransparenz.de).
9.2 Since January 1, 2023, the EEG levy has been abolished and is no longer applicable. Until then, the following regulation applied: The price according to Clause 9.1, sentences 1 and 2, is increased by the EEG levy that DEW21 is required to pay to the responsible transmission system operator, as stipulated in Section 60, paragraph 1 of the Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) in conjunction with the Ordinance on the Implementation of the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Offshore Wind Energy Act (Renewable Energy Ordinance – EEV), in the amount applicable at the time. The EEG levy is used to cover the costs incurred by the transmission system operators in implementing the legal requirements for the promotion of electricity generation from renewable energy sources. The EEG levy is expressed in cents per kilowatt-hour delivered to the end consumer.
9.3 The price according to Section 9.1, sentences 1 and 2, is further increased by the grid charges to be paid by DEW21 to the locally responsible grid operator for the use of the grid to supply the customer, in the amount applicable at the relevant time. The grid operator determines the grid charges as of January 1 of a calendar year, based on the revenue cap defined by the relevant regulatory authority in accordance with Section 21a of the German Energy Industry Act (EnWG) and, as amended, the Incentive Regulation Ordinance (ARegV), the Electricity Grid Charges Ordinance (StromNEV), and other provisions of the EnWG, and adjusted as of January 1 of a calendar year in accordance with Section 4 ARegV. The grid charges consist of a basic price charged by the grid operator and a consumption-based unit price charged by the grid operator. The otherwise applicable amount of the grid charges is to be published on the grid operator's website, in accordance with Section 27 StromNEV.

a) Changes to the grid charges become effective for the customer at the same time as they become effective for DEW21.
b) If the customer receives electricity at a voltage level other than low voltage, or if a specific grid usage fee applies to the customer in accordance with Section 19(3) StromNEV, or if this changes during the term of the contract, and the grid operator therefore invoices DEW21 with different grid usage fees, this change also applies to the billing of DEW21 to the customer. The customer will be informed of the changes with the next invoice or installment request at the latest.
c) In the event that legal remedies are filed or pending against the revenue cap determined by the regulatory authority, which is relevant for the fees (e.g., by the grid operator or third parties), the grid usage fee, which is formed by the grid operator on the basis of the legally or finally determined revenue cap and applied retroactively, is also relevant retroactively between the parties to this contract. This may lead to fees for previous periods being claimed or refunded, possibly after the termination of the contract or the supply of the respective connection points by DEW21.
d) Section 9.3, letter c) applies accordingly in the event of legal remedies against the revenue cap of the grid operator of the grid upstream of the distribution network, insofar as these have a retroactive effect on the fees of the relevant grid operator.
e) Retroactive or additional payments pursuant to the above Section 9.3, letters b) to d), are to be charged with the base interest rate applicable for the respective period, pursuant to Section 247 of the German Civil Code (BGB); this does not apply if the base interest rate is negative.
f) If the basic price (grid) is charged annually pursuant to Section 9.3, DEW21 calculates the fee to be paid by the customer within the framework of monthly installments or billing periods as 1/12 of the annual fee.
9.4 The price specified in Section 9.1, sentences 1 and 2, is further increased by the fees that DEW21 must pay to the locally responsible grid operator for the conventional operation of metering systems, in the amount applicable at the time. The grid operator determines these fees as of January 1 of a calendar year, based on the revenue caps established by the competent regulatory authority in accordance with Section 21a of the German Energy Industry Act (EnWG) in conjunction with the Incentive Regulation Ordinance (ARegV), the Electricity Grid Charges Ordinance (Strom-NEV), and other provisions of the EnWG, and adjusted as of January 1 of a calendar year in accordance with Section 4 ARegV. The currently applicable amount of the aforementioned fees is to be published by the locally responsible grid operator on its website in accordance with Section 27 Strom-NEV.

a) The provisions in Section 9.3, paragraphs a) and c) to e), apply accordingly. Section 9.3, paragraph b), applies accordingly if the customer receives energy at a voltage level other than low voltage.

b) DEW21 calculates the fees to be paid by the customer within the framework of monthly installments or invoices, using 1/12 of the annual fees.

c) If a market location supplied by DEW21 to the customer under this contract is equipped with a smart metering system or a modern metering device as defined in the German Metering Point System Act (MsbG), the price component specified in Section 9.4 b) for this market location does not apply. In this case, according to the provisions of the MsbG, the customer generally owes the metering point operator the metering point operation fee, unless DEW21 is obligated to pay the metering point operation fee to the metering point operator according to Section 9.4 d).

d) If, due to a contractual, legal, or regulatory authority arrangement, DEW21 is obligated instead of the customer to pay the fee for the operation of metering systems or modern metering devices for market locations supplied to the customer to the metering point operator, the customer pays this fee in the amount published by the competent metering point operator on its website at the time. DEW21 will inform the customer of the fee to be paid and the fact that this fee is passed on to the customer within the framework of this contract, to the extent and as soon as DEW21 is aware of these circumstances. DEW21 is entitled to enter into agreements with competent metering point operators regarding the billing of fees for the operation of smart metering systems and modern metering devices, according to which the competent metering point operator bills DEW21, provided that DEW21 ensures that the customer is not additionally charged for these fees by the competent metering point operator. Section 9.4 b) applies accordingly.
9.5 The price as per section 9.1, sentences 1 and 2, is further increased by the payments that DEW21 is obligated to make to the relevant network operator, as agreed upon in the contractual agreement, to compensate for the concession fees to be paid by the network operator at the applicable rate. The concession fee is charged by the respective municipality or district against the network operator for granting the right to use public transport routes for the installation and operation of lines that directly supply end consumers in the municipal area with energy. The amount of the concession fee is determined by the concession fee rate agreed upon between the network operator and the respective municipality or district, in accordance with section 2 of the Concession Fee Ordinance (KAV), at the applicable rate. The amount of the concession fee at the time of contract conclusion can be found in the price list or contract confirmation agreed upon with the customer; the current rate can also be accessed on DEW21’s website (www.dew21.de).
9.6 The price according to section 9.1, sentences 1 and 2, is further increased by the levy charged by the relevant grid operator to DEW21 for the use of the grid to supply the customer and determined annually by the transmission system operators for the respective following calendar year, as specified in § 19 para. 2 StromNEV (§ 19-StromNEV levy) at the currently applicable rate. The § 19-StromNEV levy is used to cover costs incurred by the transmission system operators due to their obligation to reimburse downstream grid operators for the revenues they lose because they must offer reduced grid charges to certain end consumers with atypical consumption patterns or particularly high electricity consumption, as specified in § 19 para. 2 StromNEV.
9.7 The price as per section 9.1, sentences 1 and 2, is further increased by the surcharges levied by the responsible grid operator on DEW21 for the use of the grid to supply the customer, in accordance with § 26 of the Law on the Preservation, Modernization and Expansion of Combined Heat and Power (Combined Heat and Power Act – KWKG, as of 01.01.2023: in accordance with § 12 EnFG, KWKG surcharge), in the amount applicable at the relevant time. The KWKG surcharge is used to cover the costs incurred by the transmission system operators in fulfilling the legal requirements for the claim of electricity generation from highly efficient combined heat and power plants and for promoting the expansion of heating and cooling networks.
9.8 The price according to Section 9.1, sentences 1 and 2, is further increased by the offshore grid surcharge levied by the responsible grid operator on DEW21 pursuant to Section 17f, paragraph 5 of the Energy Industry Act (EnWG) (as of January 1, 2023: Section 12 of the Energy Act – EnFG), which is incurred due to the use of the grid to supply the customer, in the amount applicable at the relevant time. The offshore grid surcharge covers part of the costs incurred by the transmission system operators through compensation payments pursuant to Section 17e of the EnWG to operators of operational offshore wind farms as a result of disruptions or delays in the grid connection of these plants, as well as, among other things, offshore connection costs pursuant to Section 17d, paragraph 1 of the EnWG, Sections 17a and 17b of the EnWG, and the costs pursuant to Section 12b, paragraph 1, sentence 3, No. 7 of the EnWG and the area development plan pursuant to Section 5 of the Offshore Wind Energy Act. It is charged as a surcharge on the grid charges and passed on to the end consumers in cents per kilowatt hour consumed.
9.9 As of July 1, 2023, paragraph 18, section 1 of the AbLaV (Ordinance on Switchable Loads) will cease to be in effect. Until then, the following regulation applies: The price according to section 9.1, sentences 1 and 2, will be further increased by the levy (AbLaV levy) charged by DEW21 pursuant to paragraph 18, section 1 of the Ordinance on Switchable Loads (AbLaV) and determined annually by the transmission system operators for the respective following calendar year, which is incurred due to the use of the network to supply the customer, in the amount applicable at the time. The AbLaV levy compensates for costs incurred by the transmission system operators through payments to operators of certain facilities that consume electrical energy, the capacity of which can be reduced at the request of the transmission system operators to maintain network and system stability.
9.10 The price according to Section 9.1, sentences 1 and 2, is further increased by the hydrogen levy to be paid by DEW21 to the grid operator according to Section 118, paragraph 6, sentence 9 to 11 of the German Energy Act (EnWG). The costs to be offset through this levy are included in the § 19 electricity levy according to the Renewable Energy Sources Act (NEV). The hydrogen levy is used to offset the costs incurred by the transmission system operators in implementing the legal requirements for the promotion of hydrogen production through water electrolysis.
9.11 The prices according to sections 9.1 to 9.10 are net prices. In addition, electricity tax, as well as VAT on these net prices and the electricity tax, will be charged at the respective applicable rate. If these tax rates change, the gross prices will be adjusted accordingly.

If, after the conclusion of the contract, the supply or distribution of electricity is subject to additional taxes or levies not mentioned in sections 9.1 to 9.11, sentence 1, the price according to section 9.1 will be increased by the resulting additional costs at the respective applicable rate. Sentence 2 applies accordingly if, after the conclusion of the contract, the supply or distribution of electricity is subject to a legally imposed, generally binding charge (i.e., no fines or similar), insofar as this has a direct impact on the costs for the services owed under this contract. The passing on of costs at the respective applicable rate according to sentences 1 and 2 will result in a corresponding reduction in fees in the event of refunds (e.g., in the form of negative allocations). No passing on of costs will occur insofar as the additional costs, in terms of amount and time of occurrence, were already specifically foreseeable at the conclusion of the contract, or the respective legal regulation prevents the passing on of costs. The passing on of costs is limited to the additional costs that, in accordance with the purpose of the legal regulation, can be assigned to the individual contractual relationship (e.g., per capita or per consumption). The passing on of costs will take effect from the time the additional costs arise. The customer will be informed of the adjustment at the latest when the invoice is issued.

This applies accordingly if the amount of a passed-on tax or levy changes; in the event of a reduction or elimination, DEW21 is obliged to pass on the costs, or if a legally imposed, generally binding charge (i.e., no fines or similar) that applies to the supply or distribution of electricity after the conclusion of the contract is eliminated, insofar as this has a direct impact on the costs for the services owed under this contract.
9.12 If DEW21 and the customer have contractually agreed on a price guarantee for the price according to Section 9.1 for a specific minimum term, then Section 9.13 does not apply during this minimum term. However, during the term of a price guarantee, adjustments to the prices will still be made due to changes in levies and taxes according to Section 9.11 (electricity and sales tax), the variable fees according to Sections 9.2 to 9.10 in the form of the charges according to the EEG, KWKG, § 17f EnWG, § 18 AbLaV, according to § 19 para. 2 Strom-NEV, and according to § 118 para. 6 sentence 9 to 11 EnWG, as well as the network charges.
9.13. Changes in prices pursuant to Section 9.1, sentences 1 and 2 – with the exception of the price components that are separately passed on to the customer pursuant to Section 9.1, sentence 3, and Sections 9.2 to 9.10, as well as any future taxes, levies, and other official charges pursuant to Section 9.11 – shall be made by DEW21 by means of unilateral determination of the service, in the exercise of reasonable discretion pursuant to Section 315 of the German Civil Code (BGB). Pursuant to Section 315, paragraph 3 of the BGB, the customer has the right to have the exercise of reasonable discretion by DEW21 reviewed by a court. In the case of the unilateral determination of the service by DEW21, only changes in costs that are relevant for the determination of prices pursuant to Section 9.1 shall be taken into account. In the event of cost increases, DEW21 is entitled to make a price change; in the event of cost reductions, DEW21 is obliged to make a price change. In the determination of prices, DEW21 is obliged to take cost increases into account only by offsetting them against corresponding cost reductions and to make a balancing of cost increases and cost reductions. DEW21 continuously monitors and reviews the development of these costs. DEW21 shall determine the nature, scope, and timing of a price change in such a way that cost reductions are taken into account to the same extent as cost increases. The unilateral determination of the service by DEW21, in the exercise of reasonable discretion, also refers in particular to the respective times of a price adjustment; these must be chosen in such a way that cost reductions are not taken into account to a greater extent than cost increases, so that cost reductions become effective in at least the same scope as cost increases. If a surcharge pursuant to Sections 9.2 to 9.10 is negative, the remuneration to be paid for the delivered energy shall be reduced accordingly. Changes in prices shall become effective on the first day of each month and only after notification in writing to the customer, which must be made at least six weeks before the intended change. At the same time as the notification to the customer, DEW21 will publish the intended changes on its website. If the customer does not agree with the notified price adjustment, he has the right to terminate the contract without observing a notice period at the time of the price adjustment becoming effective. DEW21 will draw the customer’s attention to this in the notification.
9.14 The existing statutory right of the customer to terminate the contract for good cause remains unaffected if DEW21 unilaterally changes the contract terms, in accordance with § 41 paragraph 3 of the Energy Industry Act (EnWG). DEW21 will inform customers about such changes in accordance with § 41 paragraph 3, sentence 1 of the EnWG.
9.15 Customers can obtain information about current products and tariffs by calling 0231.22 22 21 21 or by visiting the DEW21 website (www.dew21.de).
10. Refusal of payment.
Objections to invoices or interim billing are only valid for deferring or refusing payment if the underlying consumption is more than double the comparable consumption in the previous billing period without any apparent reason, and the customer requests a re-examination of the metering device, and as long as the re-examination does not confirm the proper functioning of the metering device, or if, from the perspective of a reasonable customer, there is a serious possibility of an obvious error, e.g. due to incorrect customer names, mixed-up metering locations, easily discernible calculation errors, or consumption quantities that are far outside the range of plausibility, even if a re-examination of the metering device has confirmed its proper functioning.

The customer’s rights under § 315 of the German Civil Code (BGB) remain unaffected by this clause 10.
11. Set-off
DEW21’s claims can only be offset by undisputed or legally established counterclaims. This does not apply to claims by the customer based on complete or partial non-performance or defective performance of the main contractual obligations. Furthermore, this does not apply to claims by the customer that arise as part of the reversal process following the cancellation of the contract.
12. Responsible network operator.
DEW21 is only the supplier of natural gas to the customer at the contractually specified delivery location.
The responsible network operator is the operator of the local distribution network in which the delivery location is situated.
DEW21 will inform the customer of the responsible network operator with the contract confirmation.
Current information on maintenance services and fees can be obtained from the network operator.
13. Claims related to disruptions in supply and liability.
13.1 Claims for damages resulting from interruptions or irregularities in the electricity supply, insofar as they are consequences of a disruption in the grid operation, including the grid connection, shall be asserted against the local grid operator (§ 18 NAV).
13.2 DEW21 will promptly provide information about the facts related to the cause of the damage, if it is aware of them or can reasonably investigate them, and if the customer requests it.
13.3 In all other liability cases (i.e., in cases of culpable breach of contractual obligations, such as failure to fulfill delivery obligations or inaccurate or delayed billing), the liability of the parties and their agents and vicarious agents for damages caused by fault is excluded, unless the damage was caused by intent or gross negligence; this does not apply to damages resulting from injury to life, limb, or health, or from culpable breach of essential contractual obligations, i.e., obligations the fulfillment of which is essential for the proper performance of the contract and on the compliance with which the other party is entitled to rely (so-called cardinal obligations).
13.4 In the event of a breach of essential contractual obligations that is not based on intent or gross negligence, the liability shall be limited to the damage that the liable party foresaw at the time of entering into the respective contract as a possible consequence of the breach of contract, or that it should have foreseen, taking into account the circumstances that it knew or should have known. The same applies to grossly negligent conduct by ordinary assistants (non-managerial employees) outside the scope of essential contractual obligations, as well as to damages to life, body, and health.
13.5 The provisions of the Product Liability Act remain unaffected.
14. Right of access.
14.1 After prior notification, the customer must allow the authorized representative of the network operator, the metering point operator, or DEW21, who is carrying identification, access to his property and premises, to the extent that this is necessary for determining the price calculation basis, for reading the metering devices, or in the event of a justified interruption of supply (see section 7). The notification can be made by informing the customer or by posting a notice on or in the respective building. It must be made at least one week before the scheduled access date; at least one alternative date must be offered. The customer must ensure that the metering devices are accessible.
14.2 If the customer unreasonably refuses or hinders access, they are obligated to reimburse DEW21 for the costs incurred as a result. Alternatively, DEW21 may invoice the customer for the costs incurred on a flat-rate basis, as outlined in the cost overview in accordance with section 3. In the case of a flat-rate calculation of costs, the customer is entitled to prove that such costs were not incurred or were significantly lower than the amount of the flat rate. Upon the customer’s request, the basis for the calculation must be provided; the flat-rate calculation must be easily understandable and must not exceed the costs that would normally be expected.
15. Measurement and reading.
The amount of electrical energy delivered is determined by the measuring devices or measuring systems (or legally valid substitute value determination) of the responsible metering point operator. The reading of the measuring devices is carried out by the metering point operator or DEW21, or, if no remote transmission of consumption data (e.g. via a smart metering system) takes place, upon request by DEW21 or the metering point operator, free of charge by the customer. If DEW21 requests a self-reading by the customer, DEW21 will notify the customer in good time. The reading of the measuring devices is carried out for the purpose of billing, for example, on the occasion of a supplier change or if DEW21 has a legitimate interest in verifying the reading, and for the purpose of preparing the billing information. The customer can object to a self-reading if it is unreasonable for them. To the extent that the customer has not transmitted any reading data for a specific billing period despite a corresponding obligation, or DEW21 cannot determine the actual consumption for other reasons for which DEW21 is not responsible (e.g. because no measured values are available or because no legally determined substitute values are available from the metering point operator), DEW21 can estimate the consumption on the basis of the last reading or, in the case of a new customer, on the basis of the consumption of comparable customers, taking into account the actual circumstances.
The same applies in the event of a change in the value-added tax rate and revenue-dependent tax rates.
16. Subsequent verification of measuring devices.
16.1 The customer may at any time request DEW21 to arrange for a re-inspection of the measuring devices at their point of consumption by a metrology authority or a state-approved testing facility, as defined in Section 40, Paragraph 3 of the German Metrology Act (MessEG). The costs of the re-inspection will only be charged to the customer if the legally defined tolerance limits are exceeded.
16.2 If a subsequent inspection of the metering devices reveals that the legally permissible tolerance limits for measurement errors have been exceeded, or if errors are detected in the calculation of the invoice amount (as is also the case with an invoice based on incorrect measurement data), the amount that was overcharged or undercharged will be immediately refunded or adjusted, or offset against the next installment payment. Claims under this clause are limited to the billing period preceding the detection of the error, unless the impact of the error can be determined over a longer period; in this case, the claim is limited to a maximum of three years.
17. Use of electricity
17.1 The electricity is supplied solely for the purpose of final consumption.
Any onward transmission to third parties requires the prior written consent of DEW21.
17.2 DEW21 is entitled to immediately suspend the supply and have the connection interrupted if the customer has used electricity to a significant extent by bypassing, influencing (manipulating), or before the installation of the metering devices (“electricity theft”), and the interruption is necessary to prevent further unauthorized energy consumption. In the event of a repeated offense, DEW21 is entitled to terminate the contract without observing any notice period for important reasons (see section 18.2).
17.3 The customer is obliged to immediately notify DEW21 of the conclusion of a contractual agreement with a third party regarding the provision of services related to excess or reduced generation, as well as excess or reduced consumption of electrical energy, and regarding a different balancing group. DEW21 will enable the provision of the service on the basis of a separate agreement – to the extent and for as long as this is not rendered unnecessary by a decision of the BNetzA – in return for appropriate compensation.
18. Term of the contract and termination.
18.1 The contractual relationship is for an indefinite period and can be terminated by either party with one month’s notice in writing, unless otherwise stipulated in the contract or in any agreed special terms. DEW21 will confirm the customer’s termination in writing within one week of receipt, specifying the end date of the contract.
18.2 The contract may be terminated in writing without notice for important reasons, and the supply may be discontinued. With the exception of the customer’s payment obligations, all mutual contractual obligations shall end immediately. DEW21 must immediately notify the relevant network operator to deregister the customer. To the extent that the customer’s consumption, in the event of an extraordinary termination by DEW21, is still allocated to DEW21 despite the deregistration (e.g. due to processing times of the network operator, or due to procedural deadlines arising from the BNetzA’s regulations on supplier change processes) beyond the date of contract termination, without DEW21 receiving any compensation for this (e.g. within the framework of the network operator’s over/under supply settlement), the customer shall owe the price for this continued supply according to this contract.

An important reason exists in particular if a case of clause 17.2 occurs repeatedly, or if the customer fails to make the required advance payment in a timely manner or in full, as stipulated in clause 8, or if the conditions stipulated in clause 7.5 are repeatedly met, and, in the case of payment default, the customer has been given at least two weeks’ notice of the termination; in this case, the termination will not take place if the consequences of the termination are disproportionate to the severity of the payment default, or if the customer demonstrates that there is a reasonable prospect that he will fully comply with his obligations.
18.3 An important reason exists if an enforcement procedure has been initiated against the entire assets of the other party or a substantial part of these assets, if there are grounds for initiating insolvency proceedings against the other party, or if the other party files an application for the initiation of insolvency proceedings, such proceedings have been initiated or rejected due to lack of assets, or if there is otherwise reason to believe that the other party will cease making payments.
18.4 Furthermore, DEW21 is entitled to terminate this contract prematurely if SCHUFA, Bürgel, or Creditreform provides negative information, in particular regarding the following points: enforcement proceedings, unsuccessful attachment, sworn statement regarding assets, insolvency proceedings (application for commencement, commenced proceedings, or application rejected due to lack of assets), discharge of remaining debt.
19. Relocation, transfer of the contract.
19.1 The customer is obliged to inform DEW21 of any move in advance, specifying the date of the move, the new address, and the new electricity meter number or market location identification number, in writing. As a rule, this notification must be given no later than 10 working days before the date of the move in order to allow DEW21 to register or re-register the move with the network operator in a timely manner.
19.2 In the event of a move, the customer may terminate the contract by providing six weeks’ notice in writing, and by stating their future address or the market location identification number used to designate their future delivery address. The termination may take effect at the time of the move or at a later date.
19.3 The termination according to Section 19.2 does not terminate this contract, and DEW21 will continue to supply the customer at their new place of residence under the existing contract terms, if DEW21 offers this to the customer within two weeks of receiving the termination notice and if the supply at the new place of residence is possible. The supply at the time of moving in requires that the customer has informed DEW21 of the moving date in a timely manner.
19.4 If the customer fails to provide the notification as specified in Section 19.1 for reasons that are attributable to them, and if DEW21 is not otherwise made aware of the relocation, the customer is obligated to compensate for any further withdrawals at their previous delivery location, for which DEW21 is, among other things, liable to the local network operator, in accordance with the prices stipulated in this contract. The obligation of DEW21 to promptly notify the network operator of the termination of the previous delivery location upon becoming aware of the relocation remains unaffected.
19.5 DEW21 is entitled to transfer all rights and obligations arising from the contract as a whole to a third party that is capable in terms of personnel, technology, and financial resources. The customer must be notified of such transfer in advance. If the customer does not agree to the transfer of the contract, they have the right to terminate the contract without observing any notice period. DEW21 will specifically inform the customer of this in the notification.
20. Place of jurisdiction.
The legal provisions shall apply to the place of jurisdiction. In deviation from sentence 1, Dortmund shall be the place of jurisdiction for all disputes arising from or in connection with this contract for customers who are merchants or legal entities of public law or public-law special assets. Sentence 2 shall apply accordingly if the customer does not have a general place of jurisdiction within the country or if the customer, after the conclusion of the contract, moves their domicile or habitual residence or their place of business outside the scope of the Civil Procedure Code, or if their domicile or habitual residence or their place of business is not known at the time the lawsuit is filed.
21. Amendments to the contract.
21.1 The provisions of the contract and these terms and conditions are based on the legal and other framework conditions in effect at the time the contract is concluded (e.g., EnWG, StromGVV, StromNZV, MsbG, rulings of the highest courts, decisions of the Bundesnetzagentur). After the contract has been concluded, the contractual equivalence relationship may be significantly disrupted by unforeseen changes (e.g. changes in legislation, insofar as their specific content was not foreseeable – for example, in the period between the completion of the formal legislative process and the entry into force), which DEW21 did not cause and over which it has no influence. Similarly, after the contract has been concluded, a gap that has arisen in the contract and/or these terms and conditions may cause significant difficulties in the implementation of the contract (e.g. if the case law declares a clause invalid), which can only be remedied by an adjustment or supplement. In such cases, DEW21 is obliged to adjust and/or supplement the contract and these terms and conditions – with the exception of the prices – to the extent that it is necessary to restore the equivalence relationship between performance and consideration and/or to compensate for any contractual gaps in order to make the continued and proper implementation of the contractual relationship reasonable (e.g. in the absence of statutory transitional provisions).
21.2 Any adjustments to the contract and these terms and conditions, as outlined above, may only be made at the beginning of a month. The adjustment will only become effective if DEW21 notifies the customer of the adjustment in writing at least six weeks before the intended effective date. If the customer does not agree with the notified contract adjustment, they have the right to terminate the contract in writing without observing any notice period. DEW21 will specifically inform the customer of this in the notification.
22. Data protection, data exchange with credit agencies, and right to object.
22.1 The person responsible in accordance with the legal provisions on data protection (in particular, the General Data Protection Regulation – GDPR) for the processing of the customer’s personal data is: Dortmunder Energie- und Wasserversorgung GmbH (DEW21), Management: Peter Flosbach (spokesperson for the management), Dr. Gerhard Holtmeier, Matthias Klein-Lassek, Günter-Samtlebe-Platz 1, 44135 Dortmund, email: info@dew21.de, telephone 0231.544-0.
22.2 The data protection officer of DEW21 is available to customers for questions regarding the processing of their personal data. You can contact the data protection officer at: DEW21, Günter-Samtlebe-Platz 1, 44135 Dortmund, email: datenschutz@dew21.de.
22.3 DEW21 processes the following categories of personal data: customer contact details (e.g., name, address, email address, telephone number), data relating to the delivery address (e.g., meter number, market location identification number), consumption data, information on the supply period, billing data (e.g., bank account details), data on payment behaviour.
22.4 DEW21 processes the customer's personal data for the following purposes and on the following legal bases:
a) Fulfilment (including billing) of the energy supply contract and implementation of pre-contractual measures at the customer’s request, based on Article 6(1)(b) of the GDPR and Sections 49 ff. of the German Energy Supply Act (MsbG).
b) Fulfilment of legal obligations (e.g., due to commercial or tax law requirements), based on Article 6(1)(c) of the GDPR.
c) Direct marketing and market research, based on Article 6(1)(f) of the GDPR. Processing based on Article 6(1)(f) of the GDPR may only take place insofar as this is necessary to safeguard the legitimate interests of DEW21 or third parties and does not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require the protection of personal data. The customer may object at any time to the use of this data for direct marketing and market research, in accordance with Article 21(2) of the GDPR.
d) If the customer has given DEW21 consent to the processing of personal data for telephone marketing, DEW21 processes personal data on the basis of Article 6(1)(a) of the GDPR. The customer may revoke consent for telephone marketing at any time, in accordance with Article 7(3) of the GDPR.
e) In the context of this contractual relationship, DEW21 transmits personal data collected during the application, execution and termination of this business relationship, as well as data on non-contractual or fraudulent behaviour, to SCHUFA Holding AG, Kormoranweg 5, 65201 Wiesbaden, and Creditreform Dortmund Scharf GmbH & Co. KG, Phoenixseestr. 4, 44263 Dortmund. The legal bases for these transmissions are Article 6(1)(b) and Article 6(1)(f) of the GDPR. Transmissions on the basis of Article 6(1)(f) of the GDPR may only take place insofar as this is necessary to safeguard the legitimate interests of DEW21 or third parties and does not outweigh the interests or fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require the protection of personal data. The data exchange with SCHUFA also serves to fulfil legal obligations for the performance of creditworthiness checks of customers (Sections 505a and 506 of the German Civil Code (BGB)). SCHUFA processes the data received and also uses it for the purpose of profiling (scoring) in order to provide its contractual partners in the European Economic Area and Switzerland, and possibly other third countries (if an adequacy decision of the European Commission exists for these countries), with information, among other things, for the assessment of the creditworthiness of natural persons. Further information on SCHUFA’s activities can be found in the Annex “SCHUFA Information Sheet” in accordance with Article 14 of the GDPR or online at www.schufa.de/datenschutz. In the data exchange with Creditreform, DEW21 transmits the customer’s name and contact details. Further information on data processing at Creditreform can be found in the detailed leaflet “Creditreform Information” in accordance with Article 14 of the EU GDPR or at www.creditreform.de/dortmund/datenschutz.

22.5 The personal data of the customer will be disclosed or transmitted – for the purposes mentioned in section 22.4 – exclusively to the following recipients or categories of recipients: DONETZ, service providers for advertising/marketing, and service providers.
22.6 Personal data is not transmitted to or within third countries or to international organizations.
22.7 The customer’s personal data will be stored for the purposes mentioned in Section 22.4 for as long as this is necessary to fulfill these purposes. For the purpose of direct marketing and market research, the customer’s personal data will be stored for as long as DEW21 has a legitimate interest in processing the data in accordance with the applicable legal provisions, but no longer than for a period of 12 months after the end of the contract.
22.8 The customer has the right to receive information from DEW21 regarding their stored personal data (Art. 15 GDPR); to have the data corrected if it is incorrect, outdated, or otherwise inaccurate (Art. 16 GDPR); to have the data deleted if the storage is unlawful, the purpose of the processing has been fulfilled, and the storage is therefore no longer necessary, or if the customer has withdrawn previously given consent for the processing of specific personal data (Art. 17 GDPR); to have the processing restricted if one of the conditions mentioned in Art. 18 para. 1 lit. a) to d) GDPR is met (Art. 18 GDPR); to have the data transferred, meaning the personal data provided by the customer and relating to them, made portable (Art. 20 GDPR); to the right to withdraw previously given consent, whereby the withdrawal does not affect the lawfulness of the processing that has taken place up to that point based on the consent (Art. 7 para. 3 GDPR); and to the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority (Art. 77 GDPR).
According to Art. 22 para. 1 GDPR, the customer has the right not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated processing, including profiling, unless they consent to the processing, the processing is required by law, or the processing is necessary for contractual reasons.
The customer may object to the processing of their personal data for the purposes of direct marketing and/or market research at any time without giving reasons. DEW21 will then no longer process the personal data for the purposes of direct marketing and/or market research and will delete the data if processing is not necessary for other purposes (e.g., to fulfill the contract). The customer may also object to other processing activities that DEW21 relies on as being based on a legitimate interest within the meaning of Art. 6 para. 1 lit. f) GDPR (e.g., the transmission of data on non-contractual or fraudulent behavior by the customer to credit agencies), at any time by stating the reasons for the objection, based on the customer's specific circumstances. In the event of a justified objection, DEW21 will generally no longer process the personal data for the relevant purposes and will delete the data, unless it can demonstrate compelling reasons for the processing which outweigh the customer's interests, rights, and freedoms, or the processing is necessary for the establishment, exercise, or defense of legal claims.
The objection should be sent to: Dortmunder Energie- und Wasserversorgung GmbH, Department VPK, Günter-Samtlebe-Platz 1, 44135 Dortmund, telephone 0231.22 22 21 21, fax 0231.544 30 02, or by e-mail to: widerruf@dew21.de.
22.9 If DEW21 processes personal data of the customer's employees, the customer undertakes to inform its employees that, for the duration of the energy supply contract, DEW21 will process the following categories of personal data of the employees for the purpose of fulfilling the energy supply contract: contact details (e.g., name, e-mail address, telephone number), data on job title. The customer informs the employees concerned that the processing of the specified categories of personal data is carried out on the basis of Art. 6 para. 1 lit. b) GDPR. Furthermore, the customer informs the employees concerned about the contact details of DEW21 as the controller, as well as the contact details of DEW21's data protection officer.
23. Dispute resolution procedures, consumer information, and online dispute resolution.
23.1 In order to resolve disputes between DEW21 and a customer who is a consumer within the meaning of § 13 of the German Civil Code (BGB) regarding the subject matter of this contract, this customer may, provided that DEW21 does not respond to the underlying customer complaint within a period of four weeks from receipt by DEW21 (consumer complaints should be sent to: Dortmunder Energie- und Wasserversorgung GmbH, Günter-Samtlebe-Platz 1, 44135 Dortmund, telephone 0231 22 22 21 21 / fax 0231.544-1130 / e-mail: beschwerde@dew21.de) or resolve the complaint, initiate out-of-court dispute resolution by contacting the Schlichtungsstelle Energie e. V. (the contact details of the dispute resolution body are currently: Friedrichstr. 133, 10117 Berlin, telephone 030.2757240-0, fax 030.2757240-69, internet: www.schlichtungsstelleenergie.de, e-mail: info@schlichtungsstelleenergie.de). DEW21 is obliged to participate in the proceedings before the dispute resolution body.

The right of the customer or DEW21 to bring the matter before the courts or to apply for another procedure under the German Energy Industry Act remains unaffected.

If, in connection with a claim that is affected by a dispute resolution procedure, an enforcement procedure has been initiated, the party conducting the enforcement procedure shall, upon the instruction of the dispute resolution body, suspend the enforcement procedure.
23.2 General information on consumer rights is available from the consumer service of the Federal Network Agency for the electricity and gas sector, postbox 8001, 53105 Bonn, telephone 030.22480-500 or 01805.101000 (Mon - Fri 9 am - 3 pm), fax 030.22480-323, email: verbraucherservice-energie@bnetza.de.
23.3 Information on online dispute resolution: The EU Commission has created an internet platform for the online resolution of disputes (so-called "OS platform"). The OS platform serves as a point of contact for the out-of-court resolution of disputes concerning contractual obligations arising from online purchase contracts. You can access the OS platform at the following link: http://ec.europa.eu/consumers/odr.
24. General information pursuant to the Energy Services Act.
In connection with more efficient energy use by end customers, the Federal Office for Energy Efficiency maintains a list of energy service providers, providers of energy audits, and providers of energy efficiency measures. You can find more information about the so-called provider list and the providers themselves at www.bfee-online.de. You can also find comprehensive information on the topic of energy efficiency at the German Energy Agency: www.dena.de/themen-projekte/energieeffizienz/.