Appendix:
Creditreform
Information pursuant to the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for data subjects
The controller within the meaning of Art. 4 No. 7 GDPR is Creditreform Dortmund/Witten Scharf KG, Phoenixseestr. 4, 44263 Dortmund, Tel. 02 31 / 54 94 - 5, Fax 02 31 / 54 94 - 777, E-mail info@dortmund.creditreform.de. You can reach our data protection officer at Tel. 02 31 / 54 94 - 5, Fax 02 31 54 94 - 777, E-mail datenschutz@dortmund.creditreform.de.
Our database stores information, in particular, about the name, company name, address, marital status, professional activity, and financial circumstances, any existing liabilities, as well as information on payment behavior.
The data comes in part from publicly accessible sources such as public registers, the internet, the press, and other media, as well as from the transmission of data on outstanding claims. The purpose of processing the collected data is to provide information on the creditworthiness of the requested person/company, including other credit-relevant information. The legal basis for the processing is Article 6(1)(f) of the EU GDPR.
In accordance with Art. 6 para. 1f) of the EU GDPR, information regarding the data stored with us may only be provided if a customer credibly demonstrates a legitimate interest in accessing this information. If data is transmitted to states outside the EU, this is done on the basis of the so-called standard contractual clauses, which can be viewed or requested via the following link: http://eur-lex.eu-ropa.eu/legal-content/DE/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32001D0497&from=DE.
Legitimate interests in the aforementioned sense may include: credit decisions, business development, participation relationships, claims, creditworthiness checks, insurance contracts, overdue claims, enforcement information.
Our customers include credit institutions, leasing companies, insurance companies, telecommunications companies, debt collection companies, mail-order companies, wholesalers, and retailers, as well as other companies that provide goods or services against invoice, both domestically and abroad. Within the framework of legal regulations, a portion of the data available in the business database is also used to supply other company databases, including for use in address trading and advertising purposes, as well as the production of corresponding data carriers.
The data will be stored for as long as its knowledge is necessary to fulfill the purpose of the storage. As a rule, this knowledge is required for a storage period of four years initially. After this period has expired, it will be checked whether further storage is still necessary; if not, the data will be deleted on the exact date. In the event of the completion of a matter, the data will be deleted on the exact date three years after completion. Entries in the debtor registry will be deleted on the exact date, three years after the date of the entry order, in accordance with § 882e of the German Code of Civil Procedure (ZPO). You can find further details in the "Code of Conduct for the Review and Deletion Periods of Personal Data by German Credit Reference Agencies," established by the association "Die Wirtschaftsauskunfteien e.V.," which can be found at the following link: www.handelsauskunfteien.de/...
You have the right to receive information about the data we have stored about you. If the data stored about you is incorrect, you have the right to have it corrected or deleted. If it cannot be immediately determined whether the data is incorrect or correct, you have the right to have the data blocked until the matter is clarified. If your data is incomplete, you have the right to have it completed.
If you have given your consent to the processing of the data stored by us, you have the right to withdraw this consent at any time. The withdrawal of consent does not affect the lawfulness of the processing of your data that has taken place on the basis of your consent up to the point of such withdrawal.
You can file a complaint about how we process your data with the data protection officer responsible for your federal state.
The transmission of your data to us is neither legally nor contractually required, nor is it necessary for concluding a contract. You are not obliged to provide us with the requested data. However, if you do not provide us with your data, this may make it more difficult or impossible for your lender or supplier to assess your creditworthiness, which in turn may result in you being denied a loan or advance payment from the supplier.
Right to object:
The processing of the data stored with us is carried out for compelling and legitimate reasons relating to the protection of creditors and creditworthiness, which regularly outweigh your interests, rights, and freedoms, or serves to assert, exercise, or defend legal claims. You can only object to the processing of your data if there are reasons that arise from a specific situation you are facing and that must be proven. If such specific reasons can be proven, the data will no longer be processed.